Add new middleware docs (#37514)
vercel/next.js: docs/advanced-features/middleware.md

---
description: Learn how to use Next.js Middleware to run code before a request is completed.
---

# Next.js Middleware

<details open>

<summary><b>Version History</b></summary>

| Version | Changes |

| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `v12.2.0` | Next.js Middleware GA. |

Reviewer: Version number of GA is subject to change.

Author: Cool, noted!

| `v12.0.9` | Enforce absolute URLs in Edge Runtime ([PR](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/33410)) |

| `v12.0.0` | Middleware (Beta) added. |

</details>

> Next.js Middleware enables you to use code over configuration. This gives you full flexibility in Next.js, because you can run code _before_ a request is completed. Based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, adding headers, or setting cookies.

Author: Deffo, will add 👍🏻

## Summary of Next.js Middleware

- You create a single `middleware.ts` file at your projects root with an exported function (the file extension can be either `.ts` or `.js`)
- The function can be a default export and does **not** have to be named `middleware` (though this is a convention). You only need to make the function `async` if you are running asynchronous code
- Next.js Middleware executes on _all_ requests, including `/_next`
- Node.js APIs are [not supported in this environment](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/#developing-edge-functions-locally)

### Permitted response types

When using middleware, it is not permitted to change the response body: you can only set response headers.
Returning a body from a middleware function will result in a `500` server error and an explicit response message.

The [`NextResponse`](#nextresponse) API allows you to:

- `redirect` the incoming request to a different URL
- `rewrite` the response by displaying a given URL
- Set response cookies
- Set response headers

> These tools enable you to implement A/B testing, authentication, feature flags, bot protection, and more. See our [examples repository](https://github.com/vercel/examples/tree/949f18cdd9b40b62278a0967a706fd4ace235f47/edge-functions) for code examples.

Reviewer: Can we get a URL without the hardcoded sha?

### Deploying Next.js Middleware

> Next.js Middleware uses a [strict runtime](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features) that supports standard Web APIs like `fetch`. This works out of the box using `next start`, as well as on Edge platforms like Vercel, which use [Edge Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/edge-functions).

Author: Will rename to edge runtime 👍🏻

export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return NextResponse.rewrite(new URL('/about-2', request.url));
}

// config with custom matcher
export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*'
}
```

Next.js Middleware will be invoked for **every route in your project**. There are two ways to define which paths the middleware should be run on, with a custom matcher config, or with conditional statements.

### Match paths based on custom matcher config

To decide which route the middleware should be run on, you can use a custom matcher config to filter on specific paths. The matcher property can be used to define either a single path, or using an array syntax, multiple paths.

#### Match a single path

```js
export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*',
}
```

#### Match multiple paths

```js
export const config = {
  matcher: ['/about/:path*', '/dashboard/:path*'],
}
```

Note that while the config option is the preferred method, **as it does not get invoked on every request**, you can also use conditional statements to only run the middleware when it matches specific paths.

### Match paths based on conditional statements

```typescript
// middleware.ts

> import { NextResponse } from 'next/server’

Reviewer: Wrong quote

Author: Good 👁️

import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {

  if (request.nextUrl.pathname.startsWith(´/about´)) {
    return NextResponse.rewrite(new URL('/about-2', request.url));
  }

  if (request.nextUrl.pathname.startsWith(´/dashboard´)) {
    return NextResponse.rewrite(new URL('/dashboard/user', request.url));
  }
}

```

> ### Using cookies in Next.js Middleware

Reviewer: Should we also document the `cookies` object on the incoming request?

The cookies API extends [Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map), and follows a get/set model, allowing you to get, set, and delete cookies within your middleware function. It includes methods like [entries](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map/entries) and [values](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map/entries).

```typescript
// middleware.ts

export function middleware() {

>   const response = new NextResponse()

Reviewer: `NextResponse.next()` and return it?

  }
}
```

## Next.js Middleware API

Next.js Middleware uses the [Edge Runtime API](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features/available-apis), which includes the following APIs:

- [Network APIs](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features/available-apis#network-apis)
- [Encoding APIs](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features/available-apis#encoding-apis)
- [Web Stream APIs](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features/available-apis#web-stream-apis)
- [Web Crypto APIs](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features/available-apis#web-crypto-apis)
- [Web Standard APIs](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features/available-apis#web-standards-apis)
- [V8 Primitives](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features/available-apis#v8-primitives)

See the [Edge Runtime documentation](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/) for a full list of the available APIs.

In addition to these APIs, Next.js Middleware comes with built in helpers that are based upon the native [`FetchEvent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FetchEvent), [`Response`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response), and [`Request`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) objects.

> ### NextRequest

Author: We _could_ try and add [shikitwoslash](https://shikijs.github.io/twoslash/), which would be awesome. But that is out of scope here. Instead, I _could_ list the interfaces instead. Might make it easier to read too.

  - `basePath`
  - `buildId`
  - `defaultLocale`
  - `domainLocale`
  - `locale`
  - `url`
- `ip` - Has the IP address of the `Request`
- `ua` - Has the user agent. Includes the following properties:
  - `isBot`
  - `browser`
    - `name`
    - `version`
  - `device`
    - `model`
    - `type`
    - `vendor`
  - `engine`
    - `name`
    - `version`
  - `os`
    - `name`
    - `version`
  - `cpu`
    - `architecture`
- `geo` - Has the geographic location from the `Request`. This information is provided by your hosting platform. Includes the following properties:
  - `city`
  - `country`
  - `region`
  - `latitude`
  - `longitude`

You can use the `NextRequest` object as a direct replacement for the native `Request` interface, giving you more control over how you manipulate the request.

`NextRequest` is fully typed and can be imported from `next/server`.

```ts
import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'
```

### NextFetchEvent

The `NextFetchEvent` object extends the native [`FetchEvent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FetchEvent) object, and includes the [`waitUntil()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ExtendableEvent/waitUntil) method.

> The `waitUntil()` method can be used to prolong the execution of the function, after the response has been sent. In practice this means that you can send a response, then continue the function execution if you have other background work to make.

Reviewer: Would be good to give an example

The introduction of the `307` status code means that the request method is preserved as `POST`.

- `302` - Temporary redirect, will change the request method from `POST` to `GET`
- `307` - Temporary redirect, will preserve the request method as `POST`

The `redirect()` method uses a `307` by default, instead of a `302` temporary redirect, meaning your requests will _always_ be preserved as `POST` requests.

If you want to cause a `GET` response to a `POST` request, use `303`.

[Learn more](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Redirections) about HTTP Redirects.

### How do I access Environment Variables?

`process.env` can be used to access [Environment Variables](/docs/basic-features/environment-variables.md) from Middleware. These are evaluated at build time, so only environment variables _actually_ used will be included.

> Any variables in `process.env` must be accessed directly, and **cannot** be destructured:

Reviewer: I think direct destructuring (not a word normal devs know) is supported. What isn't supported is symbolic access like `const getEnv = (name) => process.env[name]`

CC @Schniz

Reviewer 2: yes, environment variables can't be dynamically accessed or constructed, they must be statically analyzable

```ts
// Accessed directly, and not destructured works. process.env.NODE_ENV is `"development"` or `"production"`
console.log(process.env.NODE_ENV)
// This will not work

> const { NODE_ENV } = process.env

Reviewer: Confirmed https://github.com/vercel/runtimes/blob/main/packages/edge-functions-bridge/src/extract-env-vars.ts#L63

> const { NODE_ENV } = process.env

Reviewer 2: @cramforce this function does not work on Next.js though, as Next.js declares its own env vars because it analyzes the code pre-bundling:
https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/977ff5247222acfdf0b7429fa08c9f95adcb030e/packages/next/build/webpack/plugins/middleware-plugin.ts#L172-L176

> const { NODE_ENV } = process.env

Reviewer 2: I think that destructuring works but we need to check it with tests 💡

> const { NODE_ENV } = process.env

Reviewer: Uhm, can we fix?

> const { NODE_ENV } = process.env

Reviewer 2: ![👍 ](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2054772/172641921-d30e8c12-e0ba-4fa5-a154-95aa3f6148aa.png)

... or at least I will try to!

---
description: Learn how to use Middleware to run code before a request is completed.
---

# Middleware

<details open>
<summary><b>Version History</b></summary>

| Version | Changes |

| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

| `v12.2.0` | Middleware GA. |

| `v12.0.9` | Enforce absolute URLs in Edge Runtime ([PR](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/33410)) |

| `v12.0.0` | Middleware (Beta) added. |

</details>

> Middleware enables you to use code over configuration. This gives you full flexibility in Next.js, because you can run code _before_ a request is completed. Middleware runs _before_ the CDN cache lookup, then based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, adding headers, or setting cookies.

Reviewer 3: I think we need to tighten up this paragraph a bit. All the useful information is there, but maybe just needs laid out better:

- Enables me to use code over config: Is this the biggest selling point to have as the opening sentence? Why do I care about this? Maybe could switch it round to "Middleware is created in code, meaning there is no additional configuration required to add authentication, A/B testing, etc. in your next.js code"
- We've twice mentioned that it runs _before_. Is there some way we could combine these? Maybe by helping to build out the mental model of where and when middleware is invoked will help the user understand the benefits.

Author: :chefskiss:

## Summary of Middleware

> - A single `middleware.ts` file is created at your projects root, with an exported function (the file extension can be either `.ts` or `.js`)

Reviewer 3: Made it a little less passive. I also added the "or" rather than having parentheses, I don't know if it reads better though.

```suggestion
- You create a single `middleware.ts` or `middleware.js` file is created at your project's root, with an exported function
```

> - The function can be a named, or default export. If the function is a named export, then is **must** be called `middleware`. For a default export, you are free to name it anything you like

Reviewer 3: Can we add an example signature to explain this?

```suggestion
- The function can be a named or default export. If the function is a named export, then is **must** be called `middleware`. For a default export, you are free to name it anything you like
```

- The function can be `async` if you are running asynchronous code
- Middleware executes on _all_ requests, including `/_next`
- Node.js APIs are [**not supported in this environment**](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/#developing-edge-functions-locally)

### Permitted response types

> When using Middleware, it is not permitted to change the response body: you can only set response headers.
> Returning a body from Middleware will result in a `500` server error and an explicit response message.

Reviewer 3: "it is not permitted" sounds awkwardly constructed. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
When using Middleware, you cannot change the response body. Returning a body from Middleware will result in a `500` server error. Instead, you can set response headers.
```

The [`NextResponse`](#nextresponse) API allows you to:

- `redirect` the incoming request to a different URL
- `rewrite` the response by displaying a given URL
- Set response cookies
- Set response headers

With Middleware you can implement A/B testing, authentication, feature flags, bot protection, and more. See our [examples repository](https://github.com/vercel/examples/tree/main/edge-functions) for code examples.

### Deploying Middleware

> Middleware uses a the [Edge Runtime](https://edge-runtime.vercel.sh/features) and supports standard Web APIs like `fetch`. This works out of the box using `next start`, as well as on Edge platforms like Vercel, which use [Edge Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/vercel-edge-functions).

Reviewer 3: "This" is ambiguous.

## Using Middleware

To begin using Middleware, follow the steps below:

1. Install the latest version of Next.js:

```bash
npm install next@latest
```

2. Create a `middleware.ts` file under your project root directory. Note that the file extension can be either `.ts` _or_ `.js`

3. Export a middleware function from the `middleware.ts` file. The following example assumes you have a route called `/about` in your project, and that you want to rewrite to a new route `/about-2` whenever someone visits `/about`:

```typescript
// middleware.ts

import { NextResponse } from 'next/server’
import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/about-2', request.url));
}

// config with custom matcher
export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*'
}
```

> Middleware will be invoked for **every route in your project**. There are two ways to define which paths the middleware should be run on, with a custom matcher config, or with conditional statements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Middleware will be invoked for **every route in your project**. There are two ways to define which paths the middleware should be run on: with a custom matcher config or with conditional statements.
```

---
description: Learn how to use Middleware to run code before a request is completed.
---

# Middleware

<details open>
<summary><b>Version History</b></summary>

| Version | Changes |

| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

| `v12.2.0` | Middleware GA |

| `v12.0.9` | Enforce absolute URLs in Edge Runtime ([PR](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/33410)) |

| `v12.0.0` | Middleware (Beta) added |

</details>

Middleware allows you to run code before a request is completed, then based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, adding headers, or setting cookies.

> When a request is made, it will first hit the Middleware, _then_ the cache, meaning you can personalize static content and implement authentication, run A/B tests, deliver personalizes pages based on geolocation, and perform bot protection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a request is made, it will first hit the Middleware, _then_ the cache, meaning you can personalize static content and implement authentication, run A/B tests, deliver personalized pages based on geolocation, and perform bot protection.
```
